September 2024

Sir Mashhood:

Zabardast Zabardast! Video and it's audio was absolutely clear and its wonderful that today you have completed, at the basic level, the complete thing and now you are in a position to actually start working on your unique dream FYP integrating IoT, AI as well as Cyber-Security in its best tested form - blockchain.



Sir Mashhood:

Title:
Intelligent Efficiency Enhanced Block-Chain Based IoT of Securely Connected Vehicles

Description:
Project will include design, partial Implementation and a two fold Simulation of an IoT network and the dynamics of a Vehicle. The nodes of the IoT network will maintain and securely share Block-Chain based (privacy-ensured) information on the network. The information will come from the sensors monitoring different vehicle-dynamics and shared using MQTT protocol. The information will then be utilized in an AI based mechanism designed to improve the vehicles' efficiency.

Partial implementation includes practical implementation of some nodes of the IoT network using effective (e.g., ESP8266 based) devices with all features including those of a Block-Chain peer and MQTT client implemented on them.

IoT network Simulation will include a reasonable number of Virtual Nodes of the IoT simulated as part of the larger Simulation / Implementation of Block-Chain based (privacy-ensured) secure information sharing using the MQTT protocol on Node-Red. 

The MQTT protocol's Broker (Server) will be actually implemented on the system and displayed as part of the Node-Red Simulation.The physical nodes will also share information using the same Broker and so the information transfer to/from them will also be part of the Node-Red display.

Vehicle Dynamics' Simulation will continuously show the results of the A.I. mechanism in the form of enhanced performance of the vehicle. 
The AI mechanism is designed to optimize the critical parameters of vehicle-dynamics on the basis of the information available from the IoT network.

Ok now you should create a new Repository for collecting data and documentation of your work on your FYP

Here is the first little thing to read (and save as a record)
https://www.extremetech.com/cars/176093-v2v-what-are-vehicle-to-vehicle-communications-and-how-does-it-work

Soon you will get some research papers to read

Zainab:
Yes sir I have read the article.
At starting I was a bit confused between the V2V and the automated vehicles.
But then after reading the whole article it became clear that they are quite different from each other. 

Sir Mashhood:
The next paper I will give you to read will address the last part of these notes 

1st paper to read:
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-27026-9
It will make a good part of your FYP's first presentation where literature review is one of the most important things to be presented. So you have to read it and present the ideas to me ASAP.

We usually read research papers like this:
First we read the abstract
then Conclusion,
then a few lines of the introduction,
then we focus on all figures and graphs to try n grasp as much information as we can in the shortest amount of time. Then we read the remaining paper.
You can use AI's help in any stage but it is specially useful at the last stage.

Sheryar:
I was completed some tasks 
- FYP documentation repo is ready and i share inviation to all of you 
- Read the paper collect some points 
- Also create a presentation using latex (beamer) as well 
i shortly send both files (code,pdf). and will give you update on the latest paper as well

https://codeberg.org/sheryarahmed/FYP-documentation

One more thing I did search for different open source simulator. And Gazebo looks fine to me but creating engine simulation could be hard. 
This tools is mostly using with Robos. 

Hashir:
Sir I have started reading the research paper.


Sir Mashhood:
Make a 10 minutes long meeting in person or on signal' a part of your daily schedules. Share your screens during the meetings, record your voices and the screen of your pc's during the meetings and share that recording with me
In the meeting you can share your updates, whatever they may be.

This is the next paper to work on after the previous one!
Title:
Blockchain enabled data security in vehicular networks.

Reply from group:
Meeting done.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YGEkM4tnItA&ab_channel=learnWithHashir

Sir Mashhood:
I would suggest you take video pauses in the presentation. Speak for 1 minute or so, then pause recording and spend half a minute to discuss and plan the next little chunk of talk, who will speak, what will it be about and what should be shown on the screen during that.

Reply from Group:
Meeting done.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qIG6Yl0VUqw&ab_channel=learnWithHashir

Sir Mashhood:
Good I have seen the video. One thing, you should always mention the sections of the paper you are discussing before starting discussion about that section. Please clarify this thing as the video description under the video on youtube
When you read a section your main task is to discuss what you have understood in your words and clearly state each point that you do not understand
Don't need to get stuck anywhere, just move on.

October 2024

Reply from Group:
Meeting done.
https://youtu.be/avBd4mYMhiI

Sir Mashhood:
Ma Shah Allah. There is massive improvement! Keep it up!
Now that you have completed the introduction/background part, you should move on to the previously discussed method of studying a paper. Starting from abstract, then reading conclusion, then all figures, tables with their labels and descriptions and then the text of the paper
One more thing: please add these videos to a playlist on youtube and add a less than 1 minute video before the previous videos just to give a big picture of the points you discussed in this video

Next paper to read:
Designing a Real-Time Implementable Optimal Adaptive Cruise Control for Improving Battery Health and Energy Consumption in EVs through V2V Communication.
https://www.mdpi.com/1996-1073/17/9/1986

Reply from Group:
Meeting done.
https://youtube.com/watch?v=cnRhzxfN-B8&feature=shared

Sir Mashhood:
lets keep these articles saved here along this discussion as simple introductions to ACC and CACC.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooperative_Adaptive_Cruise_Control

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_predictive_control

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_cruise_control

